[Draft] TeamCard legacy wrapper spec — for alignment before implementation (#7475)
Liquipedia/Lua-Modules: docs/superpowers/specs/2026-05-06-teamcard-legacy-wrapper-design.md

# TeamCard → TeamParticipants Legacy Wrapper

**Date:** 2026-05-06
**Status:** Design (awaiting user review)
**Ticket:** https://gitlab.com/teamliquid-dev/liquipedia/issue-bucket/-/work_items/1100

## Goal

> Replace the old `Module:TeamCard` rendering with `Module:TeamParticipants/Controller` on existing tournament pages, without touching the page wikitext. The conversion is done by a Legacy wrapper module that intercepts the `{{TeamCard columns start}}` / `{{TeamCard}}` / `{{TeamCard columns end}}` template invocations, reshapes their args into TeamParticipants input, and renders.

Reviewer: why not a lua wrapper + subst?

Reviewer 2: Too unstable to start with. Better to have room to the possiblity of fixing bugs in the mappings first. Then subst can be looked at

Rollout is wiki-by-wiki, starting with ArenaFPS. LPDB storage is delegated to TeamParticipants — its `Repository.save` already produces a record shape backwards-compatible with TeamCard's writes (same `objectName` scheme, legacy participant fields via `Opponent.toLegacyParticipantData`, qualifier fields, individualprizemoney, opponentaliases).

## Out of scope

> - Per-wiki bot-edit work to insert `{{TeamCard columns start}}` / `{{TeamCard columns end}}` around naked `{{TeamCard}}` runs. The wrapper assumes columns markers are always present.

Reviewer: maybe a bot run with
`"\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*start[^\}]*\}\}\s*\{\{[tT]eamCard" "{{TeamCard columns start}}\n{{TeamCard"`
`"\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*break[^\}]*\}\}\s*\{\{[tT]eamCard" "{{TeamCard"`
`"\{\{[tT]eamCard([^\}]*)\}\}\s*\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*end\}\}" "{{TeamCard\1}}\n{{TeamCard columns end}}"`
prior?

Reviewer: note for myself - prep bot run on sc (<2k), sc2 (~300), sg (<100):

```
pwb replace -lang:starcraft2 -transcludes:TeamCard -regex -summary:"prep for conversion" "\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*start[^\}]*\}\}\s*\{\{[tT]eamCard" "{{TeamList\n|{{TeamCard" "\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*break[^\}]*\}\}\s*\{\{[tT]eamCard" "|{{TeamCard" "\{\{[tT]eamCard([^\}]*)\}\}\s*\{\{[bB]ox\s*\|\s*end\}\}" "|{{TeamCard\1}}\n}}"
```

allows the wrapper in place apply to be a simple template adjust + purge run
(for subst inner ones need to be converted to use json (with subst) plus the outer one using the conversion wrapper which generates the wiki code)

- The on-wiki template edits themselves (`Template:TeamCard*`). Those happen at deploy time.
- Per-card `disable_storage` / `nostorage` — TP's `store` flag is top-level. The wrapper only honors these on the header (`columns start`). Per-card opt-out would require a TP extension; revisit when a wiki actually needs it.

> - Per-card `lpdb_prefix` — old TC supported this to disambiguate same-team records on a single page (`ranking_<prefix>_<team>`). TP doesn't. ArenaFPS doesn't appear to use it; flag this as a known gap and revisit when a wiki that does use it comes up for migration.

Reviewer: maybe add a category in the old module to determine pages with this

- Adding `joindate`/`leavedate` to TP's player input parser and `setPageVars`. There's an in-flight TP PR doing this, which we assume lands before this wrapper ships; the wrapper just passes the values through.

## Architecture

```
Wiki templates (on-wiki, edited at deploy):
  Template:TeamCard columns start  → invoke Module:Template fn=stashArgs namespace=LegacyTeamCard
  Template:TeamCard                → invoke Module:Template fn=stashArgs namespace=LegacyTeamCard

>   Template:TeamCard columns end    → invoke Module:TeamCard/Legacy/Custom fn=run

Reviewer 2: Technically one more tempalte that we need to care about at deploy. The toogle pplayers button

>   Template:TeamCard columns end    → invoke Module:TeamCard/Legacy/Custom fn=run

Reviewer: will break any pages without `{{TeamCard columns start}}` / `{{TeamCard columns end}}`

the column ones live on commons ...

Reviewer 2: Not always, and it's always possible to make a local version initially. After a few have been done and validated, a general rollout can be done

In-repo Lua modules (new):
  Module:TeamCard/Legacy            (lua/wikis/commons/TeamCard/Legacy.lua)
  Module:TeamCard/Legacy/Custom     (lua/wikis/<wiki>/TeamCard/Legacy/Custom.lua, per wiki)

In-repo Lua modules (existing, reused):
  Module:TeamParticipants/Controller — render and store via TP.fromTemplate-equivalent path
  Module:TeamParticipants/Repository — TP's existing storage; backwards-compatible with TC LPDB writes
  Module:Template                   — stashArgs/retrieveReturnValues
```

The flow on `{{TeamCard columns end}}` invocation:

1. `Custom.run` calls `LegacyTeamCard.run(Custom.config)` (where `Custom.config` is a table of per-wiki overrides — see Section 7).
2. `Legacy.run` retrieves all stashed args via `Template.retrieveReturnValues('LegacyTeamCard')`.
3. First entry = header (from `columns start`); remaining entries = cards (from each `TeamCard`).

> 4. Header is mapped into TP top-level args (`minimumplayers`, `store`, `date`); per-card `import=false` is set on each opponent.

Reviewer 2: Top level date should not be needed (doesn't exist), only opponent level date?

5. Each card is mapped into a TP `Opponent` arg shape (Sections 3 + 4 below), applying `config` for wiki-specific renames / role mappings.
6. The wrapper sets the `team` / `teamRR` global page vars from the first non-TBD card (preserving an old TC behavior that TP's `setPageVars` doesn't cover).
7. The collected TP args are passed into a render path equivalent to `TeamParticipantsController.fromTemplate`, which itself calls `TeamParticipantsRepository.save` (storing in a TC-compatible shape) and `TeamParticipantsRepository.setPageVars` (defining the per-team / per-player wiki vars).

> ## Section 1 — Module layout & wiki templates

Reviewer 2: Do we need to care about TeamPartipantGroups (mapping the old Team Card manual groupings into the new one)?

- `LegacyTeamCard.parseQualifier(rawQualifier) -> qualificationStruct`

Wikis customize via the `config` table (Section 7), not callback hooks.

**`Module:TeamCard/Legacy/Custom`** (per wiki, e.g. `lua/wikis/arenafps/TeamCard/Legacy/Custom.lua`): thin wiki wrapper exposing a config table. For ArenaFPS (and any wiki with no special needs), the file is:

```lua
local Lua = require('Module:Lua')
local LegacyTeamCard = Lua.import('Module:TeamCard/Legacy')

local Custom = {}

Custom.config = {} -- empty: use commons defaults

function Custom.run()
    return LegacyTeamCard.run(Custom.config)
end

return Custom
```

Wikis with TC param differences set fields in `Custom.config` to override the defaults. The full config schema and defaults are described in Section 7. (Earlier hook-style overrides like `customHeader`/`customCard`/`customPlayer`/`customCoach` are gone — config-only.)

**Wiki-side template edits** (out-of-repo, but documented for the rollout):

| Template | Old body | New body |
|---|---|---|
| `Template:TeamCard columns start` | `<div class="template-box">…<#vardefine>` | `{{#invoke:Lua\|invoke\|module=Template\|fn=stashArgs\|namespace=LegacyTeamCard}}` |

> | `Template:TeamCard` | `{{#invoke:Lua\|invoke\|module=TeamCard\|fn=draw\|...}}` | `{{#invoke:Lua\|invoke\|module=Template\|fn=stashArgs\|namespace=LegacyTeamCard}}` |

Reviewer 2: Just FYI, may need to insert an empty div or something similiar inorder for MW parser to be happy, otherwise it may insert <br> for each call

Reviewer: yes you need to insert empty div for mw not to add a ton of linebreaks

| `Template:TeamCard columns end` | `</div>` | `{{#invoke:Lua\|invoke\|module=TeamCard/Legacy/Custom\|fn=run}}` |

## Section 2 — Header mapping

The first retrieved stash entry comes from `{{TeamCard columns start}}`. Map:

| TC header param | TP top-level arg | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `defaultRowNumber` | `minimumplayers` | Closest semantic match. |

> | `disable_storage`/`nostorage` (header-level) | `store = false` (top-level) | Honored only when set on the header, since TP's `store` is top-level. Per-card occurrences are ignored (out-of-scope). |

Reviewer 2: Never set on the heading in TC afaik

| `cols`, `defaultHeight`, `c2OnNewLine`, `t2title`, `t3title`, `favorDefaultRowNumber`, `maxPlayers`, `sidetabs`, `nobgcolor`, `noTeamLinks`, `noQualifierLogos`, `qualifierLogosType` | dropped | Display-only features absent from TP. |

Hardcoded by the wrapper:
- `import = false` is set **per card** (not at header level — TP reads `import` off each Opponent), so old pages use explicit rosters.

> - `store` defaults to true (TP's default) unless the header disabled storage. TP's `Repository.save` produces records with the same `objectName` shape as old TC and the same legacy participant fields via `Opponent.toLegacyParticipantData`.

Reviewer 2: store doesn't need to be hardcoded tby the wrapper. The existing logic will take care o whther r not it's needed. Hardcoding would force it to store even if SaveLpdb=false from wiki vars.

> - `date` — passed through if set on header, else TP's tournament-date default applies.

Reviewer 2: Don't think that date needs to be set by the wrapper (doesn't exist on this level afik in TC). TP handles fallbacks

> Before invoking the TP render, the wrapper also sets two global page vars from the first non-TBD card (matching old TC behavior): `team` (resolved team name at `tournament_date`) and `teamRR` (redirect-resolved name). TP's `setPageVars` does the per-team `<TeamName>_pN` style vars itself, so those are not duplicated here.

Reviewer 2: What? Is this needed? Not sure

> If the first stash entry contains a `team` key (i.e. it looks like a card, not a header — defensive case for pages where `columns start` is missing or malformed), treat all entries as cards and synthesize an empty header.

Reviewer 2: Spit out a warning or tracking category if this happens. The "columns end" template might be missing then too

## Section 3 — Per-card → Opponent mapping

For each card stash entry, build one TP `Opponent` arg.

**Team identity:**

| TC | TP | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `link` (or fallback to `team`) | positional `[1]` (template) | TC's `team` is the display name, `link` is the team template. The wrapper uses `args.link or args.team` for the TP template arg. |
| `team` (display name) | dropped | TP derives display from the team template; no separate display override. |

> | `team2`/`team3` set | TP `contenders` (list of team templates) | Maps to TP's `contenders` parsing path: opponent becomes TBD with `potentialQualifiers` populated from each team template (`Opponent.readOpponentArgs({type=team, template=…})`). `link2`/`link3` are used as templates if present. |

Reviewer 2: Don't forget about `team` when using team2, team3 for contenders

| `image1`/`imagedark1`/`imagesize` | dropped | TP gets logos from team templates. Image override (#7295) was reverted (#7449). |

> | `flag` (header flag) | dropped | No TP equivalent. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `image1`/`imagedark1`/`imagesize` | dropped | Not relevant, using team templates |
| `flag` (header flag) | dropped | Not relevant |
```

**Card-level metadata:**

| TC | TP | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `qualifier` | `qualification.{method,page,url,text,placement}` | See parser rules below. |
| `notes` | appended to `notes` list as `{text=notes, highlighted=false}` | |

> | `inotes` | appended to `notes` list as `{text=inotes, highlighted=false}` | If both `notes` and `inotes` are set, both entries are added to the TP `notes` list. |

Reviewer 2: The text parameter is wrong I think? The text should be the onctent of the note or inote, not a hardcoded string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `notes` | appended to `notes` list as `{[1] = value, highlighted=false}` | |
| `inotes` | appended to `notes` list as `{[1] = value, highlighted=false}` | If both `notes` and `inotes` are set, both entries are added to the TP `notes` list. |
```

It's this right?

   - Else: `{method, type='other', text=text}`.

Edge: TC's `qualifier=Invited` (no link) → `{method='invite', type='other', text='Invited'}`. TC's `qualifier=[[X/Qualifier|Qualifier]]` → `{method='qual', type='tournament' (if X is a tournament), page=X, text='Qualifier'}`.

## Section 4 — Players & coaches mapping

Old TC has three sources of players (`p*`, `s*`, `f*`) plus optional manual `t2*`/`t3*` tabs. New TP is one flat `players` list with `status` and `type` fields.

The wrapper reads from the **stashed args** (the user's input), not from TC's mutated post-`_parseArgs` shape. This sidesteps the `s*`-into-`t2*` rewrite logic in old TC.

**Player mapping** (per `pN`, `sN`, `fN`, `t2pN`, `t3pN`):

| TC param | TP `Person` field | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| `pN` (display) | positional `[1]` | |
| `pNlink` | `link` | |
| `pNflag_o` / `pNflag` | `flag` | TP has no `flag_o` field. The wrapper picks `pNflag_o or pNflag` and writes the result to TP's single `flag` field. |
| `pNteam` | `team` | Per-player team override. |
| `pNfaction` / `pNrace` | `faction` | |
| `pNdnp` (truthy) | `played = false` | `dnp` wins over `played`/`result` if both set. |

> | `pNplayed` / `pNresult` | `played` (boolean) | |

Reviewer 2: Verify functionality when in combination with certain config parameters. They can interact weirdly, especially with, e.g., subs.

| `pNleave` (truthy) | `status = former` | |
| `pNsub` (truthy) | `status = sub` | |
| Source group `sN` | `status = sub` | Same as `pNsub`. |
| Source group `fN` | `status = former` | |
| `pNpos` | `role` | Passed through; TP's `RoleUtil.readRoleArgs` normalizes it. Wiki-specific value mapping (e.g. `pNpos=1` → `role=carry`) goes through the per-wiki config (Section 7). |
| `pNwins` + `pNwinsc` | `trophies` | Sum of both — TC displayed them as two trophy icons (won-as-player + won-as-coach), TP collapses to a single trophy count. |
| `pNjoindate` | `joindate` | Pass-through. Assumes the in-flight TP PR adding `joindate`/`leavedate` to player input has landed before this wrapper ships. |
| `pNleavedate` | `leavedate` | Pass-through, same assumption as above. |
| `pNpreview` | dropped | In-card preview link; no TP equivalent. |

**Coach mapping** (per `cN`, `scN`, `fcN`, `t2cN`, `t3cN`):

> | TC param | TP `Person` field | Notes |

Reviewer 2: I think cNpos needs to be mapped as well

|---|---|---|
| `cN` | positional `[1]` | |
| `cNlink` | `link` | |
| `cNflag_o` / `cNflag` | `flag` | Same `flag_o`-wins-if-set rule as players. |
| `cNteam` | `team` | |
| (always) | `type = staff` | |
| `cNwins` + `cNwinsc` | `trophies` | Sum of both, same as players. |
| `c1` (default) | `role = head coach` | First coach is head coach. Override via per-wiki `coachRoles` config (Section 7). |

> | `c2..cN` (default) | `role = coach` | Override via per-wiki `coachRoles` config. |

Reviewer 2: Don't assume this. Any coach without a role should be assumed to be the role "Coach".

- Manual `t2p…`/`t3p…` tabs — bucketed by `tNtype`; `tNtitle` dropped.
- `mergeStaffTabIfOnlyOneStaff` — TP's existing config handles single-staff merge automatically; the wrapper just passes staff through.

**Deployment** (out of scope for the implementation PR, listed for rollout planning):

1. Land the Lua modules in this repo (commons + ArenaFPS Custom).
2. Bot-edit ArenaFPS pages without `columns start`/`columns end` to add the wrappers.
3. On-wiki: edit `Template:TeamCard columns start`, `Template:TeamCard`, `Template:TeamCard columns end` per the table in Section 1.
4. Verify a sample of ArenaFPS pages render correctly (controls, tabs, placements, LPDB writes).
5. Roll out wiki-by-wiki, adding per-wiki Custom files (and bot pre-passes) as each comes online.

## Section 7 — Per-wiki config schema

`Module:TeamCard/Legacy.run(config)` accepts a table of config overrides. Defaults live in commons and cover everything needed for ArenaFPS. Wikis with TC quirks override individual keys in their `Custom.config`.

Initial schema (start small; extend only when a concrete wiki needs it):

| Key | Type | Default | Purpose |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `coachRoles` | `string[]` | `{'head coach', 'coach'}` | Role assigned to `cN` by index — `coachRoles[1]` → `c1`, `coachRoles[2]` → `c2`, with `'coach'` for any further coaches beyond the array length. |

Reviewer 2: Don't think this is needed. Map by cNpos. Default to coach

> | `positionMapping` | `table<string, string>` | `{}` (identity / TP-RoleUtil-only) | Maps TC `pNpos` values to TP `role` values when the wiki uses non-standard position labels (e.g. dota2 might map `1` → `'carry'`). When empty, `pNpos` is passed through as-is and `RoleUtil.readRoleArgs` normalizes it. |

Reviewer 2: Should be normalized later anyway. Probably not needed

| `playerParamMap` | `table<string, string>` | `{}` | Optional per-wiki rename of TC player suffixes to TP person fields (e.g. `{ ['pNheroes'] = 'extradata.heroes' }`) for wiki-specific input. Empty default; rarely needed. |
| `coachParamMap` | `table<string, string>` | `{}` | Same shape as `playerParamMap`, applied to `cN`/`scN`/`fcN` etc. |

> | `cardParamMap` | `table<string, string>` | `{}` | Per-wiki rename of TC card-level params to TP opponent fields. |

Reviewer 2: Not sure if theres are needed outside of dota. I think only dota need a forced number mapping

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing config for the very important for biz logic property 

`subdnpdefault`

Replace the old `Module:TeamCard` rendering with `Module:TeamParticipants/Controller` on existing tournament pages, without touching the page wikitext. The conversion is done by a Legacy wrapper module that intercepts the `{{TeamCard columns start}}` / `{{TeamCard}}` / `{{TeamCard columns end}}` template invocations, reshapes their args into TeamParticipants input, and renders.

Rollout is wiki-by-wiki, starting with ArenaFPS. LPDB storage is delegated to TeamParticipants. The record shape is intentionally close to TeamCard's writes (legacy participant fields via `Opponent.toLegacyParticipantData`, qualifier fields, individualprizemoney, opponentaliases), but it is **not byte-for-byte identical**. Known deltas are documented in Section 5 and must be accepted or audited during rollout.

**Subst is not used initially.** A subst-based Lua wrapper was discussed (hjpalpha); the team's call (Rathoz) is to land the live wrapper first so we can iterate on bugs in the mappings, then look at subst afterwards.

> **Out of reach for this wrapper:** StarCraft, StarCraft 2, and Stormgate use TeamCard-like layouts that aren't compatible with this wrapper (different param model). Those wikis stay on their existing modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Out of reach for this wrapper:** StarCraft, StarCraft 2, and Stormgate use TeamCard-like layouts that aren't compatible with this wrapper (different param model). Those wikis are out of scope for the initial conversion. A separate wrapper will be provided (likely by hjpalpha) and applied in the upcoming months, but earliest when all necessary features are supported.
```

Hardcoded by the wrapper:
- `import = false` is set **per card** (not at header level — TP reads `import` off each Opponent), unconditionally overriding any stashed value. Old pages use explicit rosters only.

The wrapper does **not** set a top-level `date`; TP's per-opponent / page-context fallback handles it. TP's date fallback is subtly different from old TC: for cards without explicit `date`, TP prefers `enddate_<opponent>` / `enddate_<opponent>_date` before the contextual/tournament date, whereas old TC used the tournament date chain earlier.

Storage gate:
- In mainspace, the wrapper leaves `store` unset so TP's `Logic.readBoolOrNil(args.store) ~= false and Lpdb.isStorageEnabled()` behavior applies.
- Outside mainspace, the wrapper must force `store=false` or otherwise skip `Repository.save`, preserving old TC's `Namespace.isMain()` gate.

`team` / `teamRR` global page vars are **not** backfilled. Old TC defined them, but a repo-wide grep found no Lua/JS/SCSS reader. If wiki-side modules turn out to depend on them during rollout, add a targeted backfill later.

> If the first stash entry doesn't look like a header (no recognizable header keys, presence of `team` key, etc. — which means `columns start` is missing or malformed), the wrapper treats all entries as cards, **adds a tracking category** (e.g. `[[Category:Pages with malformed TeamCard structure]]`), and **emits a warning** in the rendered output. This makes the broken pages findable so they can be fixed; we don't silently fall back, since the missing `columns end` template might also indicate a structural break.

Reviewer: maybe change the category to
category:Pages_with_malformed_Legacy_TeamCard_structure
